Let's start with the collection interface and look at what are the methods that are defined in the collection
interface.
So if you look at the collection interface the best methods which are all in here are to add an element
remove an element and you can add all from a collection.
We move all from a collection or retain only the things which are present in this collection.
Other than that you can check if an object extends in a present in a collection or if a set of objects
are present in a collection and you have the standard method.
Size is empty and it also you have an iterator which would enable you to loop around the collection.
The most important thing about the interface collection is that which all things exist in collection
set interface extents collection lists interface extant collection.
Q In the first instance collection.
So the set list and q interfaces will also contain all the methods that are defined in here so set and
list and q also contain these methods.
So the easiest way to remember what a specific collection support is to remember the hierarchy of interfaces
and watch each interface upward so that the collection interface collection interface basically supports
adding an element checking event element exits adding a list adding a collection and removing things
removing an object removing a collection and removing those of items from the collection other than
the usual operation of size is empty and Pleiad function.
So this all functions will also be supported by list will also be supported by set and will also be
supported by the queue interfaces.
So we discuss about the list interface.
Next the list interface contains all the method from the collection interface.
Because that what it's extending other than the methods in the collection interface list supports getting
of value and setting a value based on index.
So you can get a value at a specific index or you can set of value at a specific index or you can add
that specific index.
So those are all the kind of things index off a specific object last index of a specific code and a
sublist saying I want the lists of items between this index and the next index.
Those are the kinds of things that are present in the list interface.
So the interface basically support adding an element removing an element adding a collection and things
like that and the list interface support.
In addition to that method do I that a certain position position is an important thing in a list.
So the most important thing about the list interface is any implementation of the list interface will
maintain the insertion order what is the insertion order.
So if I'm an interesting element a first and B next then in the list is always stored before the beat.
Obviously this insertion order is only maintained if you don't use a specific position.
So if you just add this element then it will always be before the element which is inserted after that.
Let's switch over to the ID and look at all the things which are present in here.
We are looking at a specific class called collection hierarchy.
It's in com in 28 minutes our collections package collection hierarchy.
I mean this is what we did earlier.
What are the important model to represent in the collection.
These are the important methods.
And next we started looking at the list.
So we looked at what are the important Methot in the list interface.
We saw that there are a lot of additional methods but all these methods if you look at them they would
have a position in them.
So in this position is what is very important.
So a list of things good about the position each object is in.
So the elements can be added in a specific position and also you can add elements without specifying
position in case of that if the element would be added at the end.
So we also saw that we can add different Batmen to the list and you can use indexing to remove the particular
thing in particular Batmen.
So if you want to remove searching that index zeroes you to Batmen remove zero.
Similarly I mean you can use an index to remove an index to get an altered index to set the value.
So I'm sitting batsmen are set to come up pointing.
So it would said the second element to didn't like it is in here.
So basically this is a collection where position is given a lot of importance.
The best example for the list is the class aerialist.
So the aerialist implemented list 8 the access time in list is very fast because the underlying data
structure is an area.
So in an area you can easily access the element hello world insertion and deletion at very slow because
insertion and deletion might need you to create a new array.
So you might need to copy stuff and things like that so insertion and deletion are really slow in an
aerialist compared to link list.
The one important thing about aerialist is that it's not safe.
So if you access the same aerialist instance from multiple threads the results might not be as you expect.
The other class which implements the list interface is a vector.
So a vector is thread safe so All-Met that synchronizer a vector is basically aerialist with everything
synchronize.
So if I just open up the vector class here I can open a vector from the Java utility I'm opening Jawa
you pull vector.
And you'd see that all the method in here are thing ised.
You can see it here.
So synchronized copy in two synchronized to size synchronized synchronized.
You'll see a lot of synchronized methods in here.
So synchronization is to prevent multiple threads to be able to access to the same instance at the same
time.
So rectories exactly the same as an aerialist except that it's synchronized linked list has elements
linked to each other.
So they're doubly linked.
Forward and backward to one another.
So this is an ideal choice as it is to implement a stack or a queue because linked list also implements
the queue interface.
So earlier we loaded the queue interface as well.
So linked list implement both the list and dequeue interface.
The thing about linked list is I reading through a list is little flawed because you cannot directly
access an element in the list.
You have to go through the sequence of elements and then access the specific thing.
However insertion and deletions would be faster because to insert something all that I need to do is
change the link of the previous element to the element that you would want to insert and change the
next link as well.
So it's very simple.
So it implements a queue interface so you can do a peek or a pool kind of thing to find out what is
the next element in the queue.
We look at that list interface and we'll build a couple of implementations of the list interface at
least vector and link atlast.